
Structure of the Report: 

    Executive Sum: 
        -Briefly explain details
        -Considered a Stand-Alone Document 

    Introduction: 
        -Expalins Nature of Analysis
        -States the Problem 
        -States Questions for Analysis 
            -The Problem 

    Methodology:
        -Explains Data Sources Used 
        -Outlines the plan for the Collecting of Data 

    Results: 
        -Details of Data Collection 
        -How Data was Organized 
        -How Data was Analyzed 
        -Substantiate Results with Charts and Graphs
            -Also bring attention to complex or crucial findings 

    Discussion - Findings and Implications:
        -Engage the Audience 
        -Why Does This Matter 

    Conclusion: 
        -Overall Summary of the Findings 

    Appendix/References: 
        -Information that didn't fit in the Main Body of Report 
            -But still important 
        -Resources/Acknowledgements/References 

The Report Structure: 

    The Report Structure
    Before starting the analysis, think about the structure of the report. Will it be a brief report of five or fewer pages, or will it be a 
    longer document running more than 100 pages in length? The structure of the report depends on the length of the document. A brief report 
    is more to the point and presents a summary of key findings. A detailed report incrementally builds the argument and contains details about 
    other relevant works, research methodology, data sources, and intermediate findings along with the main results.

    I have reviewed reports by leading consultants including Deloitte and McKinsey. I found that the length of the reports varied depending 
    largely on the purpose of the report. Brief reports were drafted as commentaries on current trends and developments that attracted public 
    or media attention. Detailed and comprehensive reports offered a critical review of the subject matter with extensive data analysis and 
    commentary. Often, detailed reports collected new data or interviewed industry experts to answer the research questions.

    Even if you expect the report to be brief, sporting five or fewer pages, I recommend that the deliverable follow a prescribed format 
    including the cover page, table of contents, executive summary, detailed contents, acknowledgments, references, and appendices (if needed).

    I often find the cover page to be missing in documents. It is not the inexperience of undergraduate students that is reflected in 
    submissions that usually miss the cover page. In fact, doctoral candidates also require an explicit reminder to include an informative 
    cover page. I hasten to mention that the business world sleuths are hardly any better. Just search the Internet for reports and you 
    will find plenty of reports from reputed firms that are missing the cover page.

    At a minimum, the cover page should include the title of the report, names of authors, their affiliations, and contacts, the name of the 
    institutional publisher (if any), and the date of publication. I have seen numerous reports missing the date of publication, making it 
    impossible to cite them without the year and month of publication. Also, from a business point of view, authors should make it easier 
    for the reader to reach out to them. Having contact details at the front makes the task easier.

    "A table of contents (ToC)" is like a map needed for a trip never taken before. You need to have a sense of the journey before embarking 
    on it. A map provides a visual proxy for the actual travel with details about the landmarks that you will pass by in your trip. The ToC 
    with main headings and lists of tables and figures offers a glimpse of what lies ahead in the document. Never shy away from including a 
    ToC, especially if your document, excluding cover page, table of contents, and references, is five or more pages in length.

    Even for a short document, I recommend an "abstract" or an "executive summary". Nothing is more powerful than explaining the crux of your 
    arguments in three paragraphs or less. Of course, for larger documents running a few hundred pages, the executive summary could be longer.

    An "introductory section" is always helpful in setting up the problem for the reader who might be new to the topic and who might need to 
    be gently introduced to the subject matter before being immersed in intricate details. A good follow-up to the introductory section is a 
    review of available relevant research on the subject matter. The length of the literature review section depends upon how contested the 
    subject matter is. In instances where the vast majority of researchers have concluded in one direction, the literature review could be 
    brief with citations for only the most influential authors on the subject. On the other hand, if the arguments are more nuanced with 
    caveats aplenty, then you must cite the relevant research to offer adequate context before you embark on your analysis. You might use the 
    literature review to highlight gaps in the existing knowledge, which your analysis will try to fill. This is where you formally introduce 
    your research questions and hypothesis.

    In the "methodology" section, you introduce the research methods and data sources you used for the analysis. If you have collected new data, 
    explain the data collection exercise in some detail. You will refer to the literature review to bolster your choice for variables, data, and 
    methods and how they will help you answer your research questions.

    The results section is where you present your empirical findings. Starting with descriptive statistics (see Chapter 4, "Serving Tables") 
    and illustrative graphics (see Chapter S, "Graphic Details" for plots and Chapter 10, "Spatial Data Analytics" for maps), you will move 
    toward formally testing your hypothesis (see Chapter 6, "Hypothetically Speaking").

    In case you need to run statistical models, you might turn to regression models (see Chapter 7, "Why Tall Parents Don't Have Even Taller 
    Children") or categorical analysis (see Chapters 8, "To Be or Not to Be" and 2., "Categorically Speaking About Categorical Data"). If you 
    are working with time-series data, you can turn to Chapter 11, Doing Serious Time with Time Series. You can also report results from other 
    empirical techniques that fall under the general rubric of data mining (see Chapter 12, "Data Mining for Gold"). Note that many reports 

    The results section is followed by the discussion section, where you craft your main arguments by building on the results you have 
    presented earlier.

    The "discussion section" is where you rely on the power of narrative to enable numbers to communicate your thesis to your readers. You refer 
    the reader to the research question and the knowledge gaps you identified earlier. You highlight how your findings provide the ultimate 
    missing piece to the puzzle.

    Of course, not all analytics return a smoking gun. At times, more frequently than I would like to acknowledge, the results provide only a 
    partial answer to the question and that, too, with a long list of caveats.

    In the "conclusion" section, you generalize your specific findings and take on a rather marketing approach to promote your findings so that 
    the reader does not remain stuck in the caveats that you have voluntarily outlined earlier. You might also identify future possible 
    developments in research and applications that could result from your research.

    What remains is housekeeping, including a list of references, the acknowledgment section (acknowledging the support of those who have 
    enabled your work is always good), and "appendices", if needed

Best Practices For Presenting Your Findings: 
    -Create a Story
    -Don't Use Too Much Information 
    -Just because it's interesting to me doesn't me it's actually important 
        -Stick to the Key Ideas 


Preparing the Presentation/Final Project: 
    -Note that this presentation will be prepared for your peer-data-scientists whom are eager to 
        understand every technical detail of this project.
    -As such, this presentation will be much more detailed and technical than regular high-level 
        and abstracted presentation for your executive team.
    -Once you have completed a detailed report, it should be straightforward for you to abstract it into a high-level
        deck for your executive team and/or stakeholders.


    There are a total of 40 points possible for the final assessment, and you will be graded by your peers, who are also completing this assignment.

        The main grading criteria will be:
            Uploaded the URL of your GitHub repository including all the completed notebooks and Python files (1 pt)
            Uploaded your completed presentation in PDF format (1 pt)
            Completed the required Executive Summary slide (1 pt)
            Completed the required Introduction slide (1 pt)
            Completed the required data collection and data wrangling methodology related slides (1 pt)
            Completed the required EDA and interactive visual analytics methodology related slides (3 pts)
            Completed the required predictive analysis methodology related slides (1 pt)
            Completed the required EDA with visualization results slides (6 pts)
            Completed the required EDA with SQL results slides (10 pts)
            Completed the required interactive map with Folium results slides (3 pts)
            Completed the required Plotly Dash dashboard results slides (3 pts)
            Completed the required predictive analysis (classification) results slides (6 pts)
            Completed the required Conclusion slide (1 pts)
            Applied your creativity to improve the presentation beyond the template (1 pts)
            Displayed any innovative insights (1 pts)

        You will not be judged on:
            Your English language, including spelling or grammatical mistakes
            The content of any text or image(s) or where a link is hyperlinked to



Report: 
    Executive Summary 
        -Predicting if the Falcon 9 First Stage will land successfully 
        -
    Introdution 
    Methodology
        -
    Results
    Conclusion 
    Appendix 