How good at SQL does a data scientist really need to be?
I believe SQL is an important component of a Data Scientist’s job. Its very valuable in initial stages
 of your analysis or your final analysis.

Why SQL ?

Highly useful for exploratory data analysis and to look up what data you can get quickly for 
your models. You will also understand which insights you can 
derive quickly from certain data sources especially if you have a data engineering team which gives you clean data.
Once you built and deployed your model, you need to work with analysts to identify and track metrics
 to measure how good your model is for business purposes e.g: If you are building a model to identify 
 churn, analysts need to get a metric to understand what is the difference between retained and lapsed customers.
Not all companies have the luxury of hiring data engineer, data analyst and visualization along with a 
Data Scientist. So in majority of companies, the data scientist is going to take ad-hoc requests from 
different teams on day to day basis. Python/R is overkill for such situations.
Highly valuable when you are interviewing for variety of roles including managerial roles.
Now we have talked about ‘Why?’, We have to answer ‘How Much?’

Filtering and Aggregating data : Think - ‘WHERE’. ‘HAVING’, ‘COUNT’ and other arithmetic keywords for reporting
Join and Merge different datasets - Be aware about all types of JOINS, UNION, UNION ALL, SELF JOIN, Xclusive OR etc
Date Functions to manipulate dates by month, day of the week. This is highly valuable for any project 
on Forecasting, Time Series (Think Stock market price data), Product Analytics and Marketing metrics.
Sub-Queries for aggregating in multiple levels (Think frequency distribution of a dataset)
Window Functions - Rolling Sum, Moving Average and Ranking data.
My go-to resource which is fairly short and straight forward for anyone to pick up SQL quickly is Mode . 
I think it should hardly take a day or two even for new comers to pick-up this sql.