"The main decision a campaign has to make is allocation of resources," 
    said Kimball Brace, president of Election Data Services

-decisions about how to optimize spending need to be made


"There's a need for efficiencies in everything we do and every dollar that we 
    spend," he said. "It's about figuring out how much it costs to get a vote -- 
    from zero to a vote, how much does that cost? You need to look at the techniques 
    to get there, and follow them and measure them and test them against one another over time."
    -Alex Carabelli, senior political partnerships manager at Civis

there needs to be more standardized data input and collection at the local level, according to Carmichael.
"The biggest data issues are around data cleanliness," Carmichael said.

"There are people like me who love politics but wouldn't know a data point to save my life," he said. 
    "Then there are analytics people who can deconstruct something in numerous ways but have no idea 
    how to connect that to messaging. The next growth area for politics is for people to be political 
    analytics people who can marry the art and data."

Above stuff is from:
https://www.techtarget.com/searchbusinessanalytics/feature/Election-campaigns-recognize-need-for-analytics-in-politics
Published Nov. 3 2022


What if the Bexar county republican party was able to aggregate data, analysis and anaylysis tools that
    would always be available for future campaigns?



John Courage is Current District 9 Council Man

Let's find everyone in a nursing home that is over the age of 65.
    -find repetitive addresses 
    
Tax records on all properties with 65 and older exemptions?


Below is from Texas Secreary of State Jane Nelson:
https://www.sos.texas.gov/elections/voter/reqabbm.shtml
To be eligible to vote early by mail in Texas, you must:
be 65 years or older;
be sick or disabled;
be out of the county on election day and during the period for early voting by personal appearance; or
be expected to give birth within three weeks before or after Election Day; or
be confined in jail, but otherwise eligible.


What to base likely mail in voters on?

https://electionupdates.caltech.edu/2020/03/20/some-demographics-on-voting-by-mail/
Article Posted March 20, 2020
Based on Voters in 2016 Presidential Election 
Demographic Data came from Cooperativ3e Congressional Election Study: https://cces.gov.harvard.edu/
Survey of the Performance of American Elections: https://dataverse.harvard.edu/dataverse/SPAE 

Patterns of mail-ballot usage and support for mail balloting need to be mindful of the fact that 
states organize mail balloting differently. Relying on the coding first suggested by the National 
Conference on State Legislatures, I divide states into four regimes: 
    (1) excuse required for an absentee ballot, 
    (2) no excuse required for an absentee ballot, 
    (3) permanent mail ballot list, and 
    (4) complete vote by mail (or “vote at home”). The following tables maintain this distinction.

    Take-Aways:
        1. There is very little demographic difference in the use of mail ballots.
        2. The one exception is related to age, where voters older than 65 are more 
            likely to use them than younger voters. (Note that some states, even 
            those that generally require an excuse to vote absentee, allow older 
            voters to vote by mail without an excuse.)
        3. The lack of a major difference between demographic groups is contrary 
            to some claims I have been hearing (and some I believed myself before running the numbers).
        4. Contrary to the claims of some, African Americans appear to be slightly more supportive of 
            vote-by-mail reforms than whites.
        5. Despite being the demographic most likely to take advantage of voting by mail, the age group 
            most in opposition to expanded voting by mail are those 65 and older.  The relationship is 
            strongest in non-vote-by-mail states.
        6. Voters in vote-by-mail states who return their mail ballots in person are more confident their
            votes were counted than those who mailed them back.
        7. Mail voters in vote-by-mail states are more confident their vote was counted as cast than mail
            voters in other states.
        8. There is still a substantial fraction of voters in vote-by-mail states that believe that all 
            elections should not be held by mail.




