As a Data Analyst, you will be assisting with this initiative and have been tasked with collecting 
data from various sources and identifying trends for this year's report on emerging skills. 

Your first task is to collect the top programming skills that are most in demand from various 
sources including:
Job postings
Training portals
Surveys
Once you have collected enough data, you will begin analyzing the data and identify insights and trends 
that may include the following:
What are the top programming languages in demand?
What are the top database skills in demand?
What are the popular IDEs?
You will begin by scraping internet web sites and accessing APIs to collect data in various formats like 
.csv files, excel sheets, and databases.   
 
Once this is completed, you will make that data ready for analysis using data wrangling techniques. 
 
When the data is ready you will then want to apply statistical techniques to analyze the data.  
Then bring all of your information together by using  IBM Cognos Analytics to create your dashboard. 
And finally, show off your storytelling skills by sharing your findings in a presentation.
You will be evaluated using quizzes in each module as well as the final project presentation.


Data Wrangling or Munging is a process in which we clean up the data 
    set and make it ready for data analysis. In this assignment you 
    will perform the following tasks:
Identify duplicate rows in the data frame.
Remove duplicate rows from the dataframe.
Find the number of missing values for all columns.
Find the value counts for the column "Employment".
Normalize the data using two existing columns.  


After cleaning the dataset, your next step is the analysis. In this stage 
    you will become more familiar with the data set and it will start to 
    take shape. In this assignment you will:
Plot a distribution curve, and histogram.
Find the median, and outliers of particular columns.
Compute the Inter Quartile Range.
Find out the upper and lower bounds, and find correlations between numerical columns.
Create a new dataframe.

In this assignment you will now show off your visualization skills by working with 
    the Stack Overflow Developer Survey 2019 dataset. In this assignment you will:
Create a histogram to show the distribution of data.
Create different plots such as a scatter, bubble or boxplot.
Create a pie chart, bar chart, and stacked chart to show medians and counts.


A Current Technology Usage tab containing:
Top 10 Languages
Top 10 Databases
Platforms
Top 10 WebFrames
A Future Technology Trends tab containing:
Top 10 Languages desired for the next year
Top 10 Databases desired
 for the next year
Desired platforms
 for the next year
Top 10 WebFrames desired for the next year
A Demographics tab containing:
Respondent classified by gender
Respondent count for countries
Respondent count by age
Respondent count by gender and classified by education level

Elements of a data findings report:
-Cover Page
    -At a minimum, the cover page should include the title of the report, 
        names of authors, their affiliations, and contacts, the name of the 
        institutional publisher (if any), and the date of publication.
-Executive Summary
    -brief description of points, stand alone document
    - Nothing is more powerful than explaining the crux of 
        your arguments in three paragraphs or less
-Table of Contents
-Introduction
    -nature of the analysis
    -states the problem
    -gives questions that were were to be explained by performing the analysis
-Methodology
    -explains the data sources that were used in the analysis 
    -outlines the plan for the data collection
-Results
    -goes into the detail of the data collection, organization and how it was analyzed
    -contains all the charts and graphs that would substantiate the results that 
        and call attention to the more complex or crucial findings. 
-Discussion/findings    
    -discuss implications of the findings
-Conclusion
    -reiterates problem given in Introduction
    -overall Summary
    -further potential steps
-Appendix
    -info that didn't fit in the main body of the report 
    -locations of where raw data was collected 
    -other data sources, acknowledgements and references 

From Transport Policy ( a leading research publication in  
    transportation planning)
Have you told readers, at the outset, what they might gain by 
    reading your paper?
Have you made the aim of your work clear?
Have you explained the significance of your contribution?
Have you set your work in the appropriate context by giving 
    sufficient background (including a complete set of relevant 
    references) to your work?
Have you addressed the question of practicality and usefulness?
Have you identified future developments that might result from your work?
Have you structured your paper in a clear and logical fashion?

Final PowerPoint Presentation:
Complete the slides with relevant details (You are free to add additional 
    slides, charts, tables).
Add any additional unused charts or tables to the appendix that you 
    think are relevant to your analysis.
Convert your final presentation into .pdf format.
As part of your grade for the final assignment, you will be asked to 
    upload your presentation for peer review.
You will also need to review the final presentation for at least one other 
    peer and grade them before your final grade will be available.